

## 1

Project Title: Framework for Blockchain-Based Community-Assisted Privacy-
Preserving Reporting Service for Local Governance

## Supervisor Name: Dr. Subodha Gunawardena
subodha@eie.ruh.ac.lk
## Project Description:
During the early days, representative democracies emerged to overcome the difficulties in involving
large and diverse populations in the decision-making process. Introduction to crowdsourcing and e-
Governance opened the door to more inclusive governance while preserving privacy, transparency,
and data integrity remain challenges. In addition, local governments in developing countries in the
likes of Sri Lanka often struggle with inefficiencies in solving public issues.
This work proposes a community-based reporting system that addresses these issues to enhance
local governance efficiency and transparency. Specifically, this work will address user privacy,
anonymity, and data integrity while explore ways to handle user trustworthiness and participation.
Data integrity will be handled through blockchain technology and essential functionalities include
- Implementing the reporting blockchain (or blockchains),
- Developing smart contracts for reporting and other functions
- Implementing the interfaces to interact with the blockchain
- Explore the ways to address the trustworthiness issues of users. This may require an AI based
solution.
## Additional Reading:
Some of the required functionalities are explained below.
## User Registration:
Every citizen is expected to register with the local e-governance system (LES) before starting to use
its services. Figure 1 along with Table I illustrates the registration process for a citizen with the LES.

## Figure 1

## 2

The LES should register with the identity blockchain as a node to use its services. Further, the LES
can be the same for all local governments. However, the reporting service of each local government
should have a separate SID for their reporting service. In addition, the LES should be able to
identify its registered service using the RID.


## Reporting:
Figure 2 along with Table II illustrates the reporting phase of the reporting system.

## Figure 2

## 3

The reporting blockchain is a permissioned blockchain in which validators are pre-approved
institutional stakeholders such as the local government, reputed social entities, and local
representations of independent/international agencies. A reporting Ticket is generated via
Reporting ticket smart contract.



## Opinion Poll:
Opinion Polls Local governments can seek public opinion via the reporting system. Figure 3 along
with Table III illustrates the opinion request phase of the reporting system.


## Figure 3

Opinion request Tickets are also opened using a Opinion request ticket smart contract.
I. A “Ticket” for an Opinion request is generated by the local government.
II. The users are blockchain nodes who only participate in transactions.




## 4



Table III
